### Notes for Today

## Continue to evaluate potentially interesting classes

By now I am pretty certain that Scott Murray's e-book on d3 & interactive data visualization is a resource that I would like to include to my self learning catalog. Today, I picked up from where I left off before the break (i.e. set up the dev environment but haven't done anything yet). Today we start chapter 5. Finally, I also found the [github repo](https://github.com/alignedleft/d3-book) for this e-book. It's very helpful to help the code side by side, so I don't have to re-type everything!

* [Interactive Data Visualization with D3.js](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/index.html): Finished Chapter 5 (data)
	* Introduce the concept of *chaining* (d3 methods)
	* Binding data, how to do it?
		* First, load the data
			* Loading .csv, .tsv, or .json are all very similar. Use the _d3.csv_, _d3.tsv_, or _d3.json_
			* They all have the same form _d3.filetype("filename.filetype", callback function)_
			* Pay particular attention to the "Handling data loading errors" because it explains:
				* how _d3.csv_ loading methods are asynchronous
				* how the callback function will not be called until data is (successfully) loaded so referencing the data outside of the callback will give error
				* how the callback function will still be called after even if data failed to load and need error handling to catch those
		* Bind the data ("Please make your selection" section)
			* _ds.select.data.enter_ pattern.
				* You first **select** the DOM elements
				* You then bind the selected DOM elements with **data**
				* You then **enter** the data into the HTML
				* and do whatever additional mainpulation you need to display the content
	* Why we always wrap _function(d)_ inside a d3.{text,attribute}... method?
		* "data wants to be held" section: we need to hug data **d** in an anonymous function.