### Notes for Today

## Continue to evaluate potentially interesting classes

* [Interactive Data Visualization with D3.js: Chapter 6](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch06.html): 
From the previous chapter, we learn about:
	* Chaining d3 methods
	* Loading data into d3.js so we can manipulate them
	* How to map data to visuals (this is the essence of data viz) using anonymous function

We didn't really draw anything specific, and in chapter 6, we see how to draw bar charts, scatterplot in SVG form. Finished Chapter 6 (Drawing with data)

* **Drawing div**
	* we learn about the functionalities of _attr_, _style_. The basic idea is to map each datum to visual elements:
		* _attr_ sets an HTML attribute and its value on an element. An HTML attribute is any porperty/value pair that you could include between an element's \<\> brackets.
		* _styel_ applies CSS style directly to an element. This is the equivalent of including CSS rules within a style attribute right in your HTMLs
	* The use of anonymous function is once again emphasized.

* **The power of data**
	* Again, this section emphasize the fact that binding data to DOM element is the essence of data viz in d3.js.

* **Drawing SVGs:**
In this section, we will be operating on SVGs. I think the lessons learned for me is that the HTML structure will be body/SVG/{SVG element1, SVG element2 ...etc}. The SVG layer is between body and SVG elements, and it provides the "canvas" for the elements to be displayed. The best way to see this is to follow the chapter 6 example, and see the resulting HTML page to see the structure.
	
	* create a svg: _svg = d3.select("body").append("svg").attr("width", w).attr("height", h)_. We often create the svg variable, because this particular chaining method will return a pointer/reference to the actual svg object. Saving it in a variable is convenient because we don't have to refer them in the chain the next time we need to use it.
	
	* The next step is then incude SVG elements in the SVG layer: _svg.selectAll("circle").data(dataset).enter().append("circle")_
	
	* Finally, once the data is binded, we map the data with HTML attributes using attr.

* **Drawing SVG bar chart**:
In here, we replicate the same drawing of a bar chart, but now in SVG form. Quick lessons:
	* Be aware of the reference x,y coordinates. They are on the upper-left.
	* Spacing is also important. We also want to make sure things don't go out of bound. We will learn _scale()_ soon
	* If you would like to avoid using _.attr()_ multiple times, you could use [multivalue maps](http://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/3305515)
	* We also learn how to add labels

* **Drawing scatterplot**: 
	* The process is very similar as above, the additional thing here is the data we load in is an array of array. To reference the data, we need to use the dataset[5][1] or datum[0] syntax.
