### Notes for Today

## Continue to evaluate potentially interesting classes

* [Interactive Data Visualization with D3.js: Chapter 9](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html):

	* This is perhaps the longest chapter in this e-book, and they cover the most important, and probably the strongest aspect of the d3.js library.
		
		* Until this point, we have used only static datasets. But real world data almost always _changes_ over time.
		* In D3 terms, those changes are handled by _updates_
		* The visual adjustments are made pretty with _transitions_, which can employ _motion_ for perceptual benefits.

	* I've already covered the section [_modernizing the bar chart_](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_modernizing_the_bar_chart). The basic idea here is again to leverage _scale_ and _axis_ to make the chart flexible enough to accomandate dataset of different size, domain, and range.

	* [**Updating Data**](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_updating_data): I've also covered the concept of _event listener_, and how anonymous function can be used in response to an triggered event (e.g. click on a paragraph). In this chapter, the event listener has the following code pattern:
		
		* In response to the event, we:
			* Update the dataset
			* Update the DOM if necessary
			* Update the attributes of the DOM

	* [**Transition**](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_transitions):
		
		* To add transition to the DOM elements:
			* Add _.transition()_ in the chain when your selection is made, and _above_ when any attribute changes are applied.
		
		* To prolong the animation time:
			* _duration()_ must be specified _after_ the _transition()_, and durations are always specified in milliseconds, so _duration(1000)_ is a one-second duration.
		
		* To change how transition is done:
			* _ease()_ must be specified after _transition()_, but before the _attr()_ statements to which the transition applies. They inlcude: _circle, elastic, bounce, ...etc_.
		
		* To delay the transition:
			* Simply use _delay(1000)_. As with _duration()_ and _ease()_, the order here is somewhat flexible, but it's good convention to include _delay()_ before _duration()_. Because delay happens first, followed by the transition duration itself.
			* _.delay(function(d,i){...})_ is also very common if you want the delay to vary depending on the datum (position) to make it smooth transition (wave of transitions).
			* Another point here is that _duration()_ sets the duration for each individual transition, not for all transitions in aggregate. So, for example, if 20 elements have 500-ms transitions applied with no delay, then it will all be over in 500 ms. But if a 100-ms delay is applied to each subsequent element (i * 100), then the total running time of all transition will be 2,400 ms.
			* This brings up the good point that often in _delay()_, we would do something like _.delay(function(d,i) { return i / dataset.length * 1000;})_ instead of letting the delay to grow arbitrarily big. 

		* [**Updating Scales**](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_updating_scales)
			* We simply need to update the _d3.scale_ statement in the updating codes (anonymous function in the event listener)

		* [**Updating Axes**](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_updating_axes)
			* Same trick, but since Axes are visual elements (remember the g object), we will need to select x.axis and y.axis objects and apply transition and duration on them.

		* each() transition starts and ends
			* There will be times when you want to make something happen at the start or end of a transition. In those times, _each()_ is handy to execute arbitrary code for each element in the selection. 
			* _each()_ expects two argument, either "start" or "end", and an anonymous function, to be executed either at the start of a transition, or as soon as it has ended.
			* Remember using another transition inside of _each()_ would break things. The reason is we always want the newest transition to override the old. In end, however, each("end", ...) does support transitions.
			* An equivalent way of doing transition + ease("end", transition) is to simply chain the transition without using ease.
			* A transtionless each() is also possible: this is useufl when you need to execute arbitrary code for each element in a selection.

	* [**Other Kinds of Data Updates**](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_other_kinds_of_data_updates)
		
		* [**Adding Values**](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_adding_values_and_elements). This section is worth reading again in person:
			* The insight here is that when we add a new value, we need to add a new DOM element, bind the data, and "enter" the new elments into the canvas.
				
				* **Select**: 
					* As usual. The twist here is that when we write _var bars = svg.selectAll("rect").data(dataset);_, the data() link actually returns references to all **elements** to which data was just bound, which we call the _update selection_.
				
				* **Enter**:  
					* The genius of the update selection is that it contains within it references to enter and exit subselections. In other words, it automatically tracks those additional elements AND those that needs to go away.
					* _**Whenever there are more data values than corresponding DOM elements, the enter selectio n contains references to those elements that do not yet exist**_. 

				* **Append**:
					* Since we have a direct reference to the new DOM elment that's yet to be added. All we need to do is the follow the _selectAll()->data()->enter()->append()_ pattern for the new element to be bind with the new data, and show up on the HTML.

				* Once the HTML work has been done (new DOM has been bound and added), we just use _transition()_ to transition all the attributes of these DOM elements to the right places, and we have successfully added a new value, to the dataset, and to the visualization, with nice animation and transition.

		* [**Removing Elements**](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_removing_values_and_elements)
			* Whenever there are more DOM elements than data values, the _exit_ selection contains references to those elements without data.

			* **Remove()**:
				* _bars.exit().transition().duration(500).attr("x", w).remove()_. Since bar.exit() points to the element that needs to be exit, we simply make a 500ms transition to move the element from where it is to x location the edge of the canvas at w.
				* Finally, _remove()_ is a special transition mehtod that waits until the transition is complete, and then deletes the element from the DOM forever.
			
			* Making the transition-out more smoothly (exit from the left for the first element in the array):
				* use the trick _.attr("x", -xScale.rangeBand())_
				* Not sure how _data joins with keys_ is related to all this. Whenever we call _data()_, a data join occurs that binds data with DOM elements. A data join with 'key' function gives us more control on the order.

		* Finally ,we can always [combine enter and exit](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch09.html#_add_and_remove_combo_platter).

	* **Recap**:
		* _data()_ binds data to elements, but also returns the **update selection**.
		* The update selection can contain _enter_ and _exit_ selections, which can be accessed via _enter()_ and _exit()_.
		* When there are _more values than elements_, an enter selection will reference the placeholder, not-yet-existing elements.
		* When there are _more elements than values_, an exit selection will reference the elements without data.
		* Data joins determine how values are matched with elements.
		* By default, data joins are performed by index, meaning in order of appearance.
		* For more control over data joins, you can specify a key function.
		* The sequence _enter, update, exit_ is not set in stone. Depending on your design goals, you might want to update first, then eneter new elements, and finally exit old ones. It all depends on what makes the most logical and aesthetic sense.