### Notes for Today

* [Interactive Data Visualization with D3.js: Chapter 11](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/ch11.html): Today's chapter is about **layout**. Contrary to what the name implies, D3 layouts do not, in fact, lay anything out for you on the screen. The layout methods have no direct visual output. Rather, D3 layouts take data you provided and remap or otherwise transform it, thereby generating _new_ data that is more convenient for a specific visual task. It's still up to you to tak that new data and generate visuals from it.

	* [**Many examples on the D3 website**](https://github.com/mbostock/d3/wiki/Gallery)
	
	* [**The official API documentation**](https://github.com/mbostock/d3/wiki/Layouts)

	* In this chapter, we introduce 3 layouts:
		* Pie layout
		* Stack Chart layout
		* Force firected graph layout

	Chances are I am not going to remember the details, and will have to refer back to the example code again. I think the important thing here to try to load the examples, see how dataset was transformed after applying layouts on them.

* [**Learning how to learn**]()
	* **Procrastination**:

		* To understand procrastination, we need to understand the component of a 'habit':
			* Cue: what cues you to start performing the habit
			* Routine: the actual routine of that habit. Pomodoro technique is always good to get you set into the flow. Also, focus on the 'process', not the 'product/deliverables'.
			* Reward: the reward you get after completing that habit
			* Belief: the belief that this habit is good for you

		* Let's try to analyze procrastination in the context of habit:
			* Cue: You might not realize this, but cues of procrastination are bad, so turn off all those cues as much as you can.
			* Routine: Also be aware if you are falling into the trap of routine for procrastination. To battle procrastination, the key is to break this routine.
			* Reward: You need to replace the routine with something else that gives you positive reward for the change of routine to work.
			* Belief: You need to believe this is the right thing to do

		* Keep A weekly planning journal, and do daily to-do list the night before the next day (You need to have a clear sense what you want to tackle). Having that list help your mental power to process these tasks in the background.

		* Finally, 'eat your frogs everyday': eating frogs sucks, so let's do it the first thing in the morning. It's much better to start hard because it sets you up better for the rest of the day.

	* **Memory**:
		
		* Tow main memory systems involved in your ability to chunk concepts:
			* Long term memory: warehouse, disk, need to repeat and practice. Practicing and repeating in one day is a bad idea, need to spread them out, this is why tackling procrastination is important.
			* Working memory: like a poor blackboard, easily erasable. 

		* We have outstanding visual memory system:
			* Think of funny, evocative image to help you remember
			* Create meaningful groups to simplify the materials
			* memory palace technique: justapose the thing you try to remember with a familiar place.